\renewcommand{\abstract}{During pregnancy, the fetal airways are
filled with a fluid known as fetal lung fluid, which is essential for
the development of airway width. Consequently, at birth, the
respiratory system must expel this fluid to allow air to enter and
exit, a process necessary for breathing (aeration). Fluid reabsorption
begins a few days before birth through chemical processes involving
sodium channels, and during natural childbirth, fluid is expelled from
the mouth and nose due to the compression of the neonate's chest. In
full-term infants, the likelihood of complications during aeration is
very low. However, the scenario is vastly different for preterm
infants, who are born before 37 weeks of gestation compared to the
typical 40 weeks of a normal pregnancy.  Although recruitment
maneuvers have gained more interest in preterm ventilation, there is
still no common medical strategy. Experimental procedures are tested
on animals, presenting challenges in obtaining results due to the
invasiveness of the procedures and associated ethical issues. In
silico modeling of the adult lung has been useful for understanding
pathophysiology and making diagnoses. Thus, the same approach could
help analyze various recruitment strategies and their impact on the
lung during initial aeration at birth. However, in silico models of
neonatal lungs are limited to describing up to the first generation of
the bronchial tree and are therefore inadequate for simulating the
physiological changes that occur at birth.}

% -> key-words (only in English)
\newcommand{\keywords}{morphometric model, aeration process,
lung, newborn, respiratory system}
